[HAMAGATA]
Release Clasp formation!
[HAMAGATA grunting]
There you are!
Take this!
[HASHINE]
You penetrated the core!
The Gauna has
been disintegrated!
[HAMAGATA chuckles]
Eight down. Now Nine.
And Ten.
[HASHINE] You're not out here
to just rack up kills, you know.
Hamagata!
[HAMAGATA]
Heh!
--Hashine!
--I'm fine. I'll dodge.
[HASHINE groans]
[NAGATE] Don't try to
do it by yourselves.
We're behind you,
don't forget it.
Right! I appreciate
it, Tanikaze.
[NAGATE]
Mm.
[TSURUUCHI] Good job, everyone,
you destroyed the Gauna Pod.
The mission was
a resounding success.
Okay, everybody out!
[HAMAGATA chuckles]
[GUARDIAN PILOTS murmuring]
[giggles]
[chuckles]
--Heh.
--[sighs]
Uh? Huh?
[GUARDIAN PILOTS
murmuring excitedly]
[gasping]
[chuckles]
Tch!
[TSURUUCHI chuckles] Your
mission completion time today
was 29 minutes.
That's a new record!
[GUARDIAN PILOT BB grunts]
[HAMAGATA]
Instructor Tsuruuchi!
If I fight like today,
I bet I could take down
a Gauna twice that size!
[TSURUUCHI sighs]
Hamagata...
You're a good pilot,
I won't deny that,
but you need to get a handle
on that cockiness of yours.
[GUARDIAN PILOTS laughing]
[stomach growls]
[metal creaking]
[thunking, scraping]
[GUARDIAN PILOTS gasping]
[creaking continues]
[TSUMUGI]
Tanikaze!
[GUARDIAN PILOTS squealing]
[TSUMUGI]
Good work today, Tanikaze!
Hi, Tsumugi!
[TSUMUGI] I thought you might
be hungry, so here's this!
[gasping]
[groaning]
[gasps]
Thank you, Tsumugi!
Mm!
It's so good!
[TSUMUGI giggles]
[KOBAYASHI]
It's official.
Sidonia has now spent 10 years
in the Planet Nine region.
It's been quiet for a time, and
I have no doubt that some of you
wish that peace would continue
forever without being disturbed.
However, I want you
to remember the reason why
we came out here
in the first place.
Our aim is to
colonize Planet Seven.
Remember: that is
our great task.
As we are humanity's Seed Ship,
we share this dream!
And yet, the Large Gauna
Cluster is blocking our path.
For the last decade,
we've spent countless hours
planning how to destroy it.
And, at last,
we're ready to take action.
[HIYAMA sighs]
[KOBAYASHI] The moment is upon
us! Sidonia will now begin...
...its war against
the Large Gauna Cluster!
--[GUARDIAN PILOTS murmuring]
--[gasping]
[KOBAYASHI] Given the distance
to the Large Gauna Cluster,
we believe it will take
approximately a year
for the war to be completed.
Our plan is already in place!
Now is the time to win
the war against the Gauna,
and realize
humanity's great dream!
I expect all of you
to go above and beyond
in fulfilling your duty!
[HAMAGATA]
Want to go over there?
[YUHATA]
Hey there, it's us!
Tsumugi, are you ready to go?
[TSUMUGI]
Hooray!
[NAGATE gasps]
[YUHATA giggles]
[YUHATA] Tsumugi came up
with the design
and then made it herself.
[chuckles nervously]
It's perfect.
[TSUMUGI]
You really think so?!
I'm so glad!
--[giggles]
--[NAGATE chuckles]
[TSUMUGI]
Oh! Hmm.
[grunting, groaning]
[gasps]
It's beautiful!
[TSUMUGI] Did you used to have
festivals like this every year?
[YUHATA]
That's right.
But then the war with the Gauna
began, and things changed.
Guess we had bigger things
to worry about.
When was the last time
we even had one?
I think the year we met Nagate.
[NAGATE]
Yeah.
I'm glad we were allowed to
revive the Gravity Festival.
It was nice of the captain
to let us, huh?
[TSUMUGI gasps]
Oh, hey, Tanikaze!
Look! It's me!
[giggles]
[NAGATE chuckles]
It's so cute!
[TSUMUGI]
Ah!
[whimpers]
Good evening, Tanikaze.
[NAGATE]
Uh. Hoshijiro?
[EN]
Hey, Tanikaze!
En? Ren? And who are--
I'll tell you!
Allow me to introduce you
to our new sisters.
Ah! They're tiny and so young!
[REN]
You're right.
It's because they were rolled
out a year early this time.
But we've made progress
with compressed education,
which helps a lot.
They'll all make fine pilots.
Nice to meet you, everyone!
I'm Ryo Honoka.
I'll introduce you.
From the right, Nen Honoka,
Raku, Kan, Shoku, Sui, Kei,
Baku, Sen, Kun, To, and...
[IZANA]
Nen, Raku, Kan, Shoku...
It's no good.
I can't remember them all.
[YUHATA giggles]
Well, give it some time.
[KID B giggles]
Hey, look! It's Tsumugi!
[gasps]
[KIDS chuckle]
[KID B]
Tsumugi, Clasp with me!
[TSUMUGI]
Okay!
[KID A giggling]
[TSUMUGI giggles]
[giggling]
--[music playing]
--[NAGATE] Hmm?
[KID B giggling]
It's Tsumugi!
[TSUMUGI]
Huh? Hey, Izana.
Look up there!
[IZANA]
Oh, i-it's the Gravity Cup.
Tsuruuchi made it
all the way to the finals!
[TSUMUGI]
Tsuruuchi's so awesome!
This year's your chance
to win, Tsuruuchi.
So will you?
He always chokes at
the last minute and loses.
[TSURUUCHI]
Don't say that!
Ugh. I've changed.
I'm not who I used to be!
[sighs]
Right, Samari?
This time, if I win, then you
have to photosynthesize with me!
Raugh!
[TSURUUCHI grunts]
What?!
Gyah!
[REFEREE A]
He's down!
Photosynthesis...
[grunts]
[REFEREE A]
And that's game!
The winner is
Toutarou Yamano, the new kid!
It appears that Tsuruuchi
has been denied the victory
by a young entrant once again!
[sighs]
[YUHATA gasps]
[NAGATE]
Huh?
[IZANA] The new kids
seem to be having fun.
[TSUMUGI]
Yeah, Right?
[HASHINE]
Hey! Grow up!
You're such a child.
[HAMAGATA]
That really hurt!
[YUHATA giggling]
Tsumugi?
[KOBAYASHI] We will now begin
the operations phase of our plan
to destroy the
Large Gauna Cluster!
[gasping]
[NAGATE grunts]
[YUHATA] Sidonia entered the
region around Planet Nine,
remaining in a position on
the exact opposite side
of the star, Lem, from
the Large Gauna Cluster.
We've been in
a stalemate ever since.
They can't reach us very easily,
but we can't reach them, either.
However... Thanks to
Toha Heavy Industries,
we now have a weapon
that will change that forever!
Director Sasaki?
She's talking about the
Graviton Radiation Emitter.
[TSURUUCHI]
Huh? The Graviton Radiation...?
Uh. Come again?
It's even capable of
piercing superstructures.
That one?
But I thought its existence
was entirely theoretical.
[SASAKI] We built it using
the data left behind
by the scientist Ochiai.
[gasping]
The scientist... Ochiai?
[SASAKI] That's right.
We managed to get
the thing built, anyway,
but there are still
some major problems.
Particularly the energy
it consumes.
[TSURUUCHI] So to fire one shot,
you need tens, hundreds,
thousands, ten thousands--
Ah! Agh! You're kidding me!
That is the problem
we're facing:
Our current technology.
[IZANA]
Okay, so, how can we do this?
Where can we get
that much energy?
[YURE] We'll collect it
from the star Lem.
We'll place the Stellar Energy
Collectors near it
and they'll absorb
the star's energy.
After about a year,
they'll be full.
That's great! We can shoot it
as many times as we want!
What's the risk? That the Gauna
will find it somehow?
[YURE] The risk is low,
because the system uses
no Heigus particles.
That's right. Gauna respond to
Heigus particles and Kabi.
Ah. So what you're saying is,
it's virtually
invisible to them?
But... due to its
simple construction,
all it's able to do
is gather energy.
We'll need a separate system
to complete the second phase
of the operation,
actually sending the energy
to the emitters.
[YURE] For that,
we'll deploy a network
of transmitters and relays.
[EN] Oh, so they're probably
going to find it anyway.
That's unfortunate.
We'll wait to deploy
the transmitters till after
the energy's amply charged,
before we fire, and in an
extremely narrow time span.
[KOBAYASHI]
Which brings me to this:
That is why we're making
a new Gardes Unit,
the Series 20 Yukimori.
Complete with
a new type of engine.
[YUHATA] This unit is capable of
carrying the transmitters to Lem
with incredible speed.
[KOBAYASHI] Tanikaze, you'll be
our pilot for the Yukimori.
--Ma'am.
--[KOBAYASHI] First,
we'll have to take Planet Eight
in order to establish
the transmitter.
[YUHATA] Currently,
Lem is hiding Planet Eight
from the Guana's sight.
This is our chance.
[KUNATO] In addition, we have
another trick up our sleeve
that's almost done.
Kunato?
[IZANA]
What do you mean?
You mustn't forget Hybrid 2.
[gasps]
[gasping]
[IZANA sighs]
[grunts]
If you wouldn't mind my asking,
did you have any idea
that Kunato was creating
a second Hybrid?
I just found out
before the briefing.
The captain told me
about it then.
[NAGATE grunts]
Well, I guess this means
Tsumugi's going to be
getting a new sibling.
[NAGATE grunts]
Yeah, that's right.
[NUMI]
Kanata's brainwaves are normal.
Ena mass is stable.
[MOZUKU] It took quite a long
time to complete it, didn't it?
[KUNATO]
Why, of course.
We were trying to
create an immortal--
engineering the perfect
life form takes time.
[SASAKI]
You! Hurry!
And don't smack into anything!
[GUARDIAN PILOTS murmuring]
[HASHINE whimpers]
[whimpering]
Ah! I am never gonna
get used to this.
[OPERATOR B]
Propulsion operating normally.
[OPERATOR A] All control
systems and sensors normal.
[OPERATOR C] Gardes Units
have commenced loading
into the hangar.
[YUHATA] All Gardes,
as well as Hybrid Tsumugi,
complete your assignments
as quickly as possible.
[OPERATOR A]
Left and right loading devices
functioning normally.
[OPERATOR B] Gardes Units techs,
complete final checks on
the Series 19s and
Upgraded Series 18s.
[OPERATOR D]
Launch preparations complete!
[YUHATA]
High Commander Kobayashi,
the Mizuki is taking off.
[KOBAYASHI]
Understood.
You must ensure this attack
is a success, XO Midorikawa.
[YUHATA]
Roger.
Tactical defense
cruiser Mizuki, ready!
All right. Wish me luck.
I'm heading out.
[OPERATOR E]
Roger.
Releasing output on
Heigus propulsion engine.
Initiating special acceleration!
All personnel.
The goal of this operation
is to take over Planet Eight,
our optimal relay point,
and place the relay units.
Gardes, your task will be to
destroy all the Gauna on Eight.
[GUARDIAN PILOTS]
Roger!
[OPERATOR A] Bridge to hangar
control, you are cleared
to launch your Gardes.
[OPERATOR B] Opening left and
right launch ports.
[OPERATOR C] Garde launcher,
begin launching all Gardes!
[OPERATOR D] One-zero until
the Heigus Propulsion Engines
reach their launch values.
[OPERATOR C]
Fire!
[HAMAGATA groaning]
[OPERATOR E]
Release all bulkheads on
the Hybrid launch port.
Hybrid Tsumugi's vitals: pulse
and brainwaves are stabilized.
[YUHATA] Tsumugi,
you must protect this ship.
[TSUMUGI]
Roger.
[YUHATA]
Mizuki to all personnel.
As of now, we will
begin the assault on
the enemy-controlled
Planet Eight.
This is Tanikaze. Roger!
[OPERATOR A] Observation team,
begin identifying the location
of the primary core at once.
[OPERATOR A]
Gauna Pod Ga-708!
Approximately 1000 kilometers
until the encounter begins!
[OPERATOR A] Ga-708 has
launched multiple Gauna!
[gasps]
Ew! That's disgusting!
It's nothing like
what we saw in training!
I can do this...
I can do this. I can do this!
Try to stay calm!
Focus on the task!
You beat him a bunch
of times in training!
It's fewer than in training!
We got this!
All units,
release Clasp formation!
[GUARDIAN PILOTS]
Roger!
[NAKAMA gasps]
[NAGATE]
Open fire!
[yells]
Yes!
[OPERATOR B] Almost all
the Gauna that were launched
have been destroyed.
No sign of a second wave!
This is observation! We've
located the Pod's primary core!
Okay, everyone on
the forward team,
get close and strip off its Ena!
[GUARDIAN PILOTS]
Roger!
[OPERATOR C]
We're 70% through to the core!
Primary core exposed!
Everyone, get ready!
Fire core-piercing rounds!
[OPERATOR C]
Ga-708 has disintegrated!
The Gauna Pod was destroyed!
[OPERATORS sighing, giggling]
[HAMAGATA panting]
The Gauna were nothing...
A buncha easy targets!
I beat 'em!
[OPERATOR A] Wait a moment!
There's still a Gauna signal!
1... 2...
No, 4!
There's more Gauna?
Then lemme at 'em!
[NAKAMA]
Roger!
Just a little more...
Ah!
--[NAGATE] Stay on alert!
--Where'd it come from?!
What? What just happened?
[GUARDIAN PILOTS screaming]
[NAGATE]
Forward units, fall back!
[GAUNA chuckles]
One unit down.
[NAKAMA gasps]
What is this?!
That sounds like... my sister?
[OPERATOR C gasps]
A transmission from the Gauna!
[gasps]
This is...
What is happening right now?
[GAUNA]
Release Clasp formation.
Begin attack...
...on all Gardes.
[GAUNA laughing]
[GUARDIAN PILOT FF whimpering]
A-Ah--
[OPERATOR E]
Unit 843 badly damaged!
Pilot seat shell
is lightly damaged.
--The pilot is alive!
--[NAKAMA wheezing]
--[GAUNA] Core exposed.
[OPERATOR E]
The pilot has died...
Nishinaka...
[GAUNA] Core destroyed.
One unit down.
Now for the others.
This is wild.
They're attacking us using
our own combat doctrine!
Seriously? What the heck?
The Gauna sure didn't fight
like this in virtual training!
Heigus particle
release! And, go!
Whoa, they dispersed it!
Hang on, do they have the
Garde's anti-Heigus coating?
They must have
copied it somehow!
Get off me, damn it!
[HASHINE gasps]
[HAMAGATA]
Hashine!
[HASHINE whimpers]
[TSUMUGI groans, grunts]
[OPERATOR B] That's Tanikaze!
He's taken one out!
Thanks, Tanikaze!
It's just a Gauna!
Don't be tricked
by its appearance!
Keep fighting like
you always do!
It's an old type, not even
an autonomous model.
He's amazing!
Damn it! I can't hit it!
Ryo! Don't give up, keep firing!
Bring it to me!
You got it!
[RYOU grunts]
Tanikaze!
Okay, only two left!
[NAKAMA gasps, shrieks]
Please don't eat me!
[OPERATOR E] Nakama is badly
damaged! Communication lost!
[OPERATOR D] The
Intelligent-Type Gauna
have captured Nakama's unit
and are leaving the battlefield!
[YUHATA]
Tsumugi, no, stop!
[snarls]
[TSUMUGI]
Tanikaze...
[HAMAGATA] They ate her...
They just ate a human!
We learned about that
in class, didn't we?
The Gauna that copy
the form of the pilots they eat?
[TOUTAROU growls]
[OPERATOR B]
We took so much damage,
and from just four Gauna.
The Series 19s and Upgraded
Series 18s didn't stand a chance
against them.
It was like it could tell what
their autonomous mode would do.
[YUHATA] We haven't seen
an Intelligent-Type Gauna
in a long time. Not since
the Crimson Hawk Moth.
But now...
[gasps]
...it can Clasp?
I'm afraid that it may
actually be specialized
for hunting Gardes.
[gasps]
What is this?
[GAUNA laughing]
[OFFICER A] The Large Gauna
Cluster has moved.
And it's faster than
previously estimated!
It may have generated new
propulsion units with its Ena.
[KOBAYASHI]
How much time do we have?
[OFFICER A]
At this rate?
No more than six months.
It will intercept Sidonia
in orbit around Planet Eight.
If we leave Nine now,
we can dodge it.
Captain!
[KOBAYASHI] If they want
a final battle, they'll get one.
Stay the course.
The Sidonia will remain
in orbit around Planet Nine.
[IZANA] We will begin the Sector
32 Dismantling Experiment
as planned.
[SASAKI] Everyone maintain
gravity balance in your tower!
[chuckles]
[HASHINE grunts] Come on,
Hamagata, that was dangerous!
[HAMAGATA grunts]
Oops! Dammit!
[growls]
[TSUMUGI] Hamagata,
I know we're not in combat,
but that doesn't give you
an excuse to play around.
[HAMAGATA sighs]
Sorry.
What the--?
[IZANA] Tsumugi,
is something the matter?
You always get excited
during these things.
Are you okay?
[TSUMUGI]
Y-Yeah, I'm fine, jeez.
I'm not a kid anymore, you know!
[TSUMUGI gasps]
[whines]
[sighs]
[HAMAGATA] Is this going
to make it in time?
[GUARDIAN PILOT GG]
Huh?
The Large Gauna Cluster moved
and that pushed the schedule up
six whole months, right?
I mean, we haven't even
finished the Series 20 yet.
[GUARDIAN PILOT GG] So we're
gonna have to fight before
the collectors finish charging?
We paid a high price
to be able to build them
in the first place.
It has to work.
[TSUMUGI]
I'm sure it will be fine, guys!
Have some faith!
[OPERATOR A] Stellar
Energy Collector Spheres
numbered 1 through 3 have
been successfully planted
in orbit around Lem.
The others will be
arriving shortly.
[YUHATA panting]
Okay.
[NEWSCASTER A]
Now for our next top story.
Command announced earlier today
that they have successfully
taken Planet Eight.
Planet Eight is a strategically
important planet in our war
against the Large Gauna Cluster.
[RESIDENT AA] Does this mean
we won't have to fear
the Gauna anymore?
[RESIDENT A] I dunno,
but can we really beat
the Large Gauna Cluster head on?
Seems pretty ambitious.
[RESIDENT B]
Ugh. I'm so scared.
[NEWSCASTER A] This assault
was just the first step
in what is said to be
a complex plan of attack.
All reports say that everything
is proceeding as planned.
[OCHIAI] Moving up the timeline
is scaring the people
on board the ship. Six months
is a lot of time to lose.
[KOBAYASHI] We can still
fire the Graviton Emitter,
even without fully
filling the collectors.
Have Toha finish the Series 20
as fast as possible.
[OCHIAI]
Of course.
[KUNATO]
Captain, You and I need to talk.
[OPERATOR D] Mizuki to
Sidonia Central Command.
The relay base around
Planet Eight has been set up,
and we are returning to base.
[OPERATOR G]
Permission granted.
[GUARDIAN PILOT H]
Whew, finally done!
[GUARDIAN PILOT I] Time for some
nice relaxing photosynthesis,
--am I right?
--[HASHINE sighs]
[OPERATOR]
Ahh, I so needed this.
[NAGATE sobbing]
Kunato?
[KUNATO] Tanikaze,
it's never good to indulge
in sentimentality.
After all, human emotions
are utterly useless in
the battle against the Gauna.
The Gauna won't wait
for us to stop crying.
They'll strike while
our tears are wet.
[NAGATE grunts]
[HIYAMA]
Nagate?
Hiyama? What are you doing here?
[HIYAMA sighs]
Well, you know...
[NAGATE] I know Kunato's
right, but still...
I can't help the way I feel.
[HIYAMA chuckles] You remind me
so much of two people
I used to know.
Uh?
One of them fought
with everything they had
to protect Sidonia.
And the other, well,
they saved my life.
I wouldn't be standing
here with you right now
if it weren't for both of them.
They had very different ways
of thinking, but one thing
they had in common was that they
both cared deeply for Sidonia.
[OPERATOR H] It's been almost 2
months since we took over Eight,
but the Large Gauna Cluster
hasn't changed its course.
[OPERATOR I] If we'd
changed course immediately,
we could've escaped.
But not now.
And our new weapon, the Series
20, isn't even finished yet.
--[whirring]
--[OPERATORS gasping]
Captain!
[KOBAYASHI] We will now attempt
to boot up the Hybrid, Kanata.
Kanata?
Don't you think it's too soon?
[KOBAYASHI] We will have her
generate a propulsion device
like the one in the Series 20.
[KOBAYASHI]
Kunato. Are you ready?
[KUNATO]
We are indeed ready, Captain.
[gasps]
Kunato!
What are you doing?
It's dangerous to be up there!
If something happens...
That is precisely why I'm here.
Just in case something happens.
[KOBAYASHI]
It's fine. Go ahead.
All right, then.
Initiating test sequence.
Attempting to boot
the Hybrid, Kanata.
Booting up Hybrid Kanata.
Sequence 1 initiated.
Vitals are stable.
Brainwaves normal. No issues.
Ena mass has reached
expected values.
Remote control routes
established for all
nerve circuitry from
the center to the edges.
Move to boot-up sequence 2.
[OPERATOR J]
Roger. Releasing safeties!
Go!
[KUNATO grunts]
Kunato, no!
Disabling hibernation.
[OPERATOR J]
Kanata is awakening.
[OPERATOR AA]
Brainwaves stable.
Hybrid Kanata boot-up
is successful.
Is Kunato okay?
It appears so--
he's just unconscious.
[KANATA]
Has it really been a century?
[KANATA] Would you be willing to
forgive me at last, Kobayashi?
[KOBAYASHI gasps]
--[OPERATOR H gasps]
--That voice...
[gasps]
[KANATA chuckling]
[laughing]
[KANATA]
I have my immortal body!
I've finally been freed.
Or, rather, liberated.
Unshackled from the very
concept of a species itself!
[KOBAYASHI]
Ochiai, you bastard...
You almost destroyed Sidonia!
--So why--?
--A century...?
Could that be... No! Ochiai?
--[OPERATORS gasping]
--[OPERATOR I] Ochiai?
Isn't he the one who started
the Fourth Gauna War?
[OPERATOR H]
Not him!
[OPERATOR I] Is he the one
who threw away the Kabizashi
and let the Gauna in?
That can't be good!
[alarm blaring]
[OPERATOR I]
Kanata's Ena mass is expanding
beyond predicted values!
Heigus Particle density
is rising rapidly!
[OPERATOR J] It's absorbing
unexpected amounts
from the ship's Heigus ducts!
[KANATA laughs maniacally]
[KOBAYASHI]
We must destroy Kanata at once.
[YUHATA gasps] Gardes on duty,
equip Hyper Velocity
Projectile Accelerator Devices
and head there immediately!
[GUARDIAN PILOTS]
Roger!
[YUHATA] Tanikaze, Samari,
get both your teams ready!
[YURE]
This is impossible...
I can't believe it.
I have to stop him!
Command, Kanata is using
its Ena to create
a Graviton Radiation Emitter!
[gasps] Did you say
"Graviton Radiation Emitter"?
[gasps]
What just happened?
[OPERATOR AA] Primary and backup
controls for the experiment
lab sector are down!
[YURE gasps]
[loud warbling]
[OPERATORS grunting]
[YUHATA]
What is this...?
[OPERATOR J] Gravity vibration
waves detected!
[SASAKI grunts]
[RESIDENTS gasping, screaming]
[HIYAMA screams]
[groans]
Ouch, that really hurt.
[OPERATOR K]
A gravity warning is in effect!
--What's going on?
--[alarm blaring]
--[NAGATE gasps]
[OPERATOR K]
A gravity warning is in effect!
Gravitational anomalies...
[gasps]
[groans]
Tanikaze, are you okay?
[NAGATE groaning]
[TOUTAROU]
We have a wounded pilot!
We need assistance!
[grunts]
[OPERATOR L]
Fire in Garde Hanger 7!
Assistance needed!
Firefighting teams,
head there immediately!
[OPERATOR J]
Explosions have occurred in
multiple Garde Hangers!
Tsugumori Custom-II damaged!
The internals around the pilot
seat are badly damaged!
It cannot launch, and its
pilot is badly injured!
What is... happening...?
--[alarm blaring]
--[bells ringing]
[TSUMUGI gasps]
Tanikaze!
[MOZUKU giggles]
--[BOTH gasp]
--Another explosion?!
Hey, command,
what the hell is going on?
Something is very wrong here.
[TSUMUGI]
Izana, is Tanikaze okay?
[IZANA]
I don't know either!
[TSUMUGI]
No!
[TSUMUGI] This is Tsumugi!
Open the door to my launch port!
[groaning]
Hurry up!
[OPERATOR J] We can't get it
open from in here!
We're trying to find out why!
G-Give us a few moments!
[TSUMUGI gasps]
I can't afford to!
I'm gonna have
to destroy the door!
Calm down! Tsumugi!
[OPERATOR J] Hybrid Tsumugi's
launch port isn't opening!
It appears as though
someone has sealed it!
Looks like we had bombs
planted over here, too!
The Series 20 was damaged!
[KOBAYASHI growls]
Ochiai, you bastard...
Have every crew member,
including all able civilians,
search the ship
from top to bottom!
[OCHIAI] It doesn't matter
what you do, Kobayashi.
Captain, Kanata's forced
his way into the ship's
communications system
and is leaking information.
[OCHIAI]
I have finally been reborn
into the ultimate lifeform!
Ochiai!
[TOUTAROU panting]
[WORKER AA]
Hey! There's wounded over there!
Dammit...
Hey, you!
What are you doing?!
--[WORKER BB grunts]
--[WORKER AA groans]
[TOUTAROU growls]
[TOUTAROU snarls]
[TOUTAROU gasps]
[GUARDIAN PILOT HH]
Target sighted! Opening fire!
Fire!
[gasps]
It didn't work!
Is that a... superstructure?
[OPERATOR M]
783 badly damaged!
Pilot unconscious!
A mass cannon.
That shell was so fast!
[OPERATOR H]
Displaying analysis!
This means... that normal
Garde weapons can't destroy it?
[OCHIAI]
I told you, Kobayashi.
It's useless.
[KOBAYASHI grunts] We must use
the Graviton Radiation Emitter
--as well.
--[gasps]
[SASAKI]
Captain!
With the amount of Heigus
particles we have aboard,
we need to get incredibly close
or it won't work!
[KOBAYASHI] If we don't use it
now, we'll lose the ability
to use it forever. Get it ready.
Huh?! She actually
wants us to fire
the Graviton
Radiation Emitter?!
What's she thinking?!
Where are we supposed
to get the energy for that?!
It's Captain's orders!
We have to fire it,
even just at minimum power!
Yeah, but... that's impossible!
Literally! How are we supposed
to even hit it from there?!
[YUHATA]
What do we do?
The emitter is the only weapon
that can penetrate Hybrid 2's
superstructure, but we don't
even have the power to use it.
[YUHATA] And what's worse,
he has a graviton emitter
of his own, made from Ena.
[gasps]
[YURE]
Communications restored!
Commander, Kanata's
firing device is prepping.
It will be ready
in a few minutes!
[KOBAYASHI] Interesting, you're
making the exact same mistake
you made last time. Ochiai.
[KANATA]
I'm not what I was before.
And, fortunately, this time,
there's no Hiroki Saito.
[KOBAYASHI] Maybe,
but he left behind an heir.
[KANATA]
You mean Nagate Tanikaze?
[laughs]
Not in a million years did I
imagine I would hear
those words from you.
[KOBAYASHI gasps]
[BOTH wheezing]
On my life! The captain is
crazy! Do you know that?!
Maybe. Now's the time
to show us your skills!
[TSUMUGI grunts]
[panting]
[IZANA]
Tsumugi!
[HIYAMA panting]
[KANATA] Even assuming
you somehow beat the Gauna...
...how long do you think you
can keep your species alive
by passing the seed down
the generations?
A few hundred million
years at best?
--No, a few thousand?
--[RESIDENTS murmuring]
--I'm different.
Now, I can even
talk to the Gauna.
[KOBAYASHI] Understanding
the Gauna is impossible.
[KANATA] Don't you at least wish
to discover what they want?
Where they came from?
What they're trying to do?
[TSUMUGI panting]
Tanikaze!
[panting]
[YUHATA]
Seventy seconds now...
[KANATA]
If you don't stop...
If you insist on trying to
eliminate the Gauna,
I'll show you no mercy.
I'll destroy the Sidonia...
...Kobayashi.
I can keep humanity alive.
And I can do so all by myself!
[KOBAYASHI]
That's impossible, Ochiai.
You're going to die here.
But still, there's
no need to fear.
As you leave this world,
believe in the next generation!
[KANATA] Hmph! You leave me
no choice, then.
[OPERATOR H] Kanata's
graviton radiation emitter
will be online soon!
We're running out of time!
[gasps]
[OPERATOR H
Thirty seconds until it fires!
[YUHATA whimpers]
[TANBA]
The ducts are connected!
Do we have the barrel ready yet?
[MECHANIC A]
We need three minutes!
We don't have that!
--[thud]
--[gasps]
[TSUMUGI]
Let me help!
Please, I know what to do!
[SASAKI]
Tsumugi...
Don't tell me you're going
to serve as a support pillar?
But the tip isn't even shielded!
It's not safe!
[OPERATOR H
Five seconds until Kanata fires!
[TSUMUGI grunting]
Tsumugi!
[TSUMUGI]
Tanikaze, I'll protect Sidonia.
[HIYAMA panting]
Stop this now, Ochiai!
--[KANATA gasps] Lalah...?
--I'm begging you!
[HIYAMA grunts]
[KANATA]
Why were they able to fire?
And through the hull, at that?
Old man!
Tsumugi! Tsumugi!
[OPERATOR H] The disintegration
seems to have stopped!
And there's still some Ena left!
[YUHATA] Why? We destroyed
the core, so why?
[IZANA]
Look.
There's still core left!
There was another he was hiding!
[OCHIAI chuckles]
I told you, Kobayashi.
If something's really
important, you need a spare!
[KOBAYASHI grunts]
[OCHIAI chuckles]
[OPERATOR N] Kanata is
heading away from the Sidonia
at high speed!
[TSURUUCHI]
Wow!
It blasted that massive hole
clean through there!
[SEII] It's the only weapon that
can penetrate a superstructure.
Even with the bare minimum
of power we scraped up,
it hit hard.
True, but, nevertheless,
our enemy, the Hybrid Kanata,
has this exact same weapon.
[grunts]
A-Ah...
I guess Tsumugi saved us
again this time.
Yes. The civilian crew, they
sent her a lot of heartfelt
thank you messages.
I hope you get well
soon, Tsumugi.
It wasn't just her, though.
It was you, too.
Huh?
You saved us all again.
Everyone's grateful.
[YUHATA gasps]
Oh, yeah, how's Nagate doing?
Ah. Still in the ICU.
He's no longer in any danger,
but it'll take 2 to 3 weeks
to get him back on his feet.
[TOUTAROU groans] Why do
the exams take so long?
For a ridiculous
little injury like this?
Ah. Hey, Yamano!
Yamano, buddy!
You caught the one who
attacked Tanikaze, didn't you?
Nice going!
[TOUTAROU]
That's not entirely correct, no.
Do you have any idea
what happened to her?
Her body is still alive.
They sent it over
to Shinatose Labs.
I heard that they found
some kind of bug or something
living in her body.
A bug?
[grunts]
[TOUTAROU]
I got you!
They're thinking... that other
crew members may be under
the control of that
scientist, Ochiai, too.
We just got examined
ourselves, as a matter of fact.
It's scary, huh?
Both that woman and
Norio Kunato were taken over
by Ochiai without
even knowing it!
[grunts]
Norio... Kunato...?
[HAMAGATA]
Yes. From Kunato Developments.
The Scientist Ochiai
made himself all comfy
--inside his body!
--[gasps]
His body was recovered, as well.
They sent it over
to Shinatose Labs, too.
Oh, I see.
Inside Norio Kunato...?
[BOTH]
Huh?
[HIYAMA] Is all this fighting
really necessary, though?!
[KOBAYASHI]
Give it up, Lalah.
We can't allow anything
to threaten Sidonia.
So the answer's yes.
But it's Ochiai!
I believe that deep down,
he might still care about us!
Captain, XO Midorikawa is here.
Send her in.
[YUHATA]
Excuse me, Captain-- Ah! Um.
I'll come back!
[whimpers]
Ah?! Hiyama?!
[HIYAMA sighs]
Midorikawa, Ochiai--
No. The Hybrid Kanata,
what do we know about it?
Not much.
We don't know where it is,
but it seems to have left Lem.
[KOBAYASHI]
Hmph. Makes sense.
It'll take some time for him
to fully recover his Ena.
He probably wanted to avoid
the risk of running into
the Gauna before then.
[YUHATA]
Right.
Um, Captain...
May I ask you something?
[KOBAYASHI]
Go ahead.
[YUHATA]
Um, it's about Ochiai.
He's supposed to be dead.
Why is he alive?
I'm sorry if that's
a sensitive question.
I just thought you might know.
[KOBAYASHI grunts]
[HIYAMA sighs]
Because...
This may surprise you,
but we are the Immortal Council.
[KOBAYASHI grunts]
Lalah!
The Immortal Council?
The highest governing body
on Sidonia, all immortals.
So, you mean, it wasn't
an urban legend, after all?
We can't keep it secret
anymore, Kobayashi.
At the very least, she, of all
people, should know the truth.
[gasps]
[grunts]
I agree.
[gasps]
The material is able
to pierce a Gauna core.
And are you aware how it
was discovered? The Kabi.
Yes, I am. Six centuries ago,
the Sidonia encountered
a mysterious ruin in space,
where it was
discovered by chance.
Your account is correct,
and we were the ones
who investigated that.
[gasps]
[HIYAMA]
It was a special space,
one that cut off
Heigus particles.
And when we delved into it,
we found the Gauna there.
[SUZUKI]
Gauna!
[screams]
Get out, Kobayashi!
--Saito, no!
--[SAITO] Suzuki was eaten!
Ochiai, give
the order to retreat!
[HIYAMA] We didn't have an
adequate way of fighting back.
We had no choice
but to go farther in.
In that space,
with nowhere to run,
we saw it for the first time.
We discovered the one way to
defeat the Gauna--the Kabi--
and we became heroes.
The first in Sidonia's
history to defeat them.
[HIYAMA]
And so...
That's where the research
into immortality began.
[gasps]
And when Ochiai
dedicated himself to
researching the Gauna,
he came to believe
that they might possibly be
the ultimate life form.
That's why... he wanted
to attempt to fuse
human with Gauna.
And so, you see, Ochiai became
obsessed with the Gauna.
And then a century ago,
when he created the Hybrid,
he parted ways with the Sidonia.
He ejected the Kabizashi,
and allowed the Gauna inside,
That was the event that
instigated the 4th Gauna War.
But you already knew that much.
Tell it all! He only did that
because he wanted to prove
that the Gauna
were after the Kabi!
[YUHATA] In fact, the Gauna
are drawn not just by Kabi,
but by anything that uses
the Heigus particles.
That's why the Sidonia
was in danger.
[KOBAYASHI] We captured Ochiai
and took his research data,
locking them both securely away
beneath Kunato Developments.
But now, he has rebelled
against us again.
The blood worm that
we found inside Kunato...
...was used as a way for
Ochiai to take over his body.
Huh?
[NAGATE groaning]
[gasps]
What day is it?
I've been out that long?!
What the--?!
[NURSE A]
Wait, Tanikaze! You need rest!
[NAGATE]
I'm fine, I promise!
I'm home!
Why's nobody here?
[NAGATE]
Tsumugi...?
[gasps]
Anyone? Is someone here?!
[NAGATE panting]
Tsumugi!
[TSUMUGI groans]
Tanikaze...
[NAGATE sighs]
Thank goodness...
[TSUMUGI]
You're safe. I'm so glad.
So glad...
[sobs]
[NAGATE]
Me, too.
I thought that you were gone.
I was so scared.
[TSUMUGI] Tanikaze... Thank you
so much for coming.
[NAGATE]
Yeah. Are you okay now?
I heard you did something crazy.
[TSUMUGI]
I'm fine. Just didn't think.
But do you mean... Are you
worried about me, Tanikaze?
[NAGATE]
Of course I am!
[TSUMUGI gasps]
Is that... because
I'm so important?
Since Sidonia needs me
to be a weapon, and all?
[NAGATE]
What are you talking about?!
[TSUMUGI] I-I'm sorry!
I know it's not the time, but...
No, I want to hear you say it!
[TSUMUGI]
Listen...
If something happened,
and I died, would you be...
I won't let that happen!
I promise!
[TSUMUGI gasps]
[NAGATE grunts]
Didn't mean to yell.
But... never talk about
dying again...
--[TSUMUGI gasps]
--...okay?
[TSUMUGI sniffles]
[sighs]
Promise me?
Promise!
[NEWSCASTER A]
--will be moving.
We thank those of you
in the residential block
for your understanding.
[NAGATE]
See? It's open.
[TSUMUGI]
Uh. Okay!
[NAGATE] You don't need
to be so nervous, really.
[TSUMUGI]
Ah. Huh?
[NAGATE]
Now, let's go.
[TSUMUGI screams]
Just promise you
won't let me fall, okay?!
[gasps, grunts]
Ah!
[TSUMUGI]
Wow! I'm flying!
I can't believe it!
This feels incredible!
[NAGATE chuckles]
You have flown before, you know.
[NAGATE]
You seem fine now, huh?
[TSUMUGI]
Ah.
Yes!
[TSUMUGI grunts] Tanikaze,
how did you swing it to be able
to get me into the
residential block?
The captain gave special
permission, that's how.
[TSUMUGI]
Hmm?
[TSUMUGI] Is it okay for me to
get this close to a building?
[NAGATE]
It's fine.
This is the oldest part of
Sidonia, so it doesn't matter.
[TSUMUGI grunts]
[NAGATE]
Nobody lives here.
[TSUMUGI]
Wait, if you sit there,
the building will
collapse, won't it?
[chuckles]
It'll be okay.
[TSUMUGI gasps]
--[RESIDENTS gasping]
--[TSUMUGI gasps]
Looks like somebody
else got here first.
[RESIDENT C]
Sorry, we were just leaving.
[RESIDENT BB]
Oh! Take your time!
[TSUMUGI]
Ah...
Um. Where are we?
[NAGATE]
This is the sea.
You said you wanted
to swim, right?
[TSUMUGI]
Ah!
The sea!
[REN]
Mm. Ah.
This tea smells lovely, En!
Yeah, It's the good stuff.
I thought the day called
for something a bit fancier.
--[TSUMUGI laughing]
--[NAGATE] Hey, stop!
[TSUMUGI]
Hah! Hah!
[giggles]
[EN, REN gasp]
Tsumugi...!
Now the tea has the lovely
scent of the sea, En.
Right?
[TSUMUGI] Tanikaze,
thank you so much for today!
I never thought I'd get a chance
to do something like this.
[TSUMUGI] Earlier, when
I saw the residential block,
I was so excited I actually
forgot I could fly!
Oh. I see, is that why
you got so afraid?
[TSUMUGI] Yes! But still,
it was a new experience for me.
I had so much fun!
I'm so happy I could just die!
[gasps] Oh, no.
I-I did it again, didn't I?
I-I'm sorry...
[sobbing]
[NAGATE gasps]
What's wrong, Tsumugi?
[sobbing]
[TSUMUGI]
It's nothing, ignore me!
[sobbing]
[NAGATE]
It's not nothing.
--[TSUMUGI] I'm sorry...
--[NAGATE sighs]
[sobbing continues]
I just feel bad...
This entire day, you were trying
so hard to show me a fun time.
[NAGATE]
It's okay.
[TSUMUGI gasps]
No matter what happens, I'll
always protect you, Tsumugi.
So please, don't cry.
[TSUMUGI]
You know something?
I'm not scared of dying in
battle. Not even a little bit.
[sniffles, sobs]
And, yet... I don't know.
[sobs]
If I...
If I could be a normal size...
If I could be fully human
a-and be with you,
even just once,
I-I'd be all right with that.
[sobs]
When I think about it...
...I'm not sure why,
but,.. I can't stop crying!
[sobbing]
Ugh, what am I even saying?
[sniffles]
[NAGATE] It doesn't matter
to me whether you're human!
[TSUMUGI gasps]
I like you as you are!
Your size doesn't matter to me!
Our height difference...
It's only 15 meters, y'know?
I'm going to live a long time,
so I can be with you.
We can have that
as long as possible.
Right up until the day I die!
Because I love you, Tsumugi!
[TSUMUGI gasps]
[grunts]
[gasps]
Tanikaze, I-I'm feeling dizzy...
Are you okay?!
[TSUMUGI]
O-Oh, um, h-hi, Tanikaze...
[NAGATE]
Yagh! Ah, ah, ah! Hot! Argh!
[TSUMUGI]
Ah! [whimpers]
A-Are you okay?!
[TSUMUGI whimpers]
[singing in Japanese]
--[RESIDENT CC] What's that?
--[RESIDENT D] What's going on?
There's music throughout
the whole residential block.
[TSURUUCHI sighs] It sounds like
kind of a sad song, doesn't it?
[SAMARI] Yes. It used to be
popular back on Earth.
This voice...
Hmm... Couldn't be.
Izana, let's make sure
we come back safe.
[IZANA]
Mm.
[singing continues]
[KUNATO sighs]
I heard you left the hospital
and returned to piloting.
[KUNATO] The Doctor was able to
prove my innocence, thankfully.
Will Mozuku ever
go back to normal?
We won't know how much of
her mind and memories we can
bring back until we try,
but we do know we can
regenerate her body.
I'm the one who
broke Ochiai's seal.
I did it for my own glory and
to get at Tanikaze, honestly.
I'm not proud.
Mozuku did nothing wrong!
So please!
Promise me you'll save her!
--Oh, Kunato...
--[KUNATO sobbing]
[sighs]
[TOUTAROU] Are you thinking
that there's no place for you
on the Sidonia?
Or am I way off base?
[KUNATO gasps]
Ah. I'm sorry.
It's just, I used to think the
same thing about myself. So...
Ah?
[TOUTAROU]
I'm Toutarou Yamano.
Uh. Yamano?
[TOUTAROU]
Yes.
Eiko Yamano, the one who
the Gauna ate, was my sister.
She was on your team,
along with you and Tanikaze.
[gasps] Sorry, I never
realized she had a brother.
[TOUTAROU] I was still
very young when she died,
so that makes sense.
[KUNATO]
Hmm.
Do you have any idea
how long it's been since then?
[BOY A]
Ha, ha!
How's it feel to know
your sister's a Gauna?
[BOY B] Here's an idea:
throw yourself in the reactor!
[TOUTAROU sniffing]
Sister...
[OPERATOR O] The Suppression
Force--they've gone down!
[OPERATOR P]
The Gauna have breached
our last line of defense!
I see... It still feels
like it was yesterday.
[TOUTAROU] I asked them if they
would let you join my team.
I'm honored.
[KUNATO]
I look forward to it.
[TANBA] We only have 60 hours
left to get this thing running!
Hey, you there!
That's enough slacking off!
The Large Gauna Cluster
is getting closer,
but I think we'll make it.
[OPERATOR Q] The Large Gauna
Cluster has passed Planet Eight.
It should reach us in
approximately 240 hours.
[YUHATA]
If the Yukimori gets built,
we can fire the Graviton
Radiation Emitter
before the enemy arrives.
All that's left now is
finding the primary core.
--[beeping]
--[gasps]
[OPERATOR Q] The Large Gauna
Cluster is moving.
It's sending Gauna to Lem!
[YUHATA]
They can't be...
[OPERATOR Q] A large number of
Gauna Pods are heading for Lem!
[gasps] They must be coming
after the collectors!
[OPERATOR R] At their
current rate of speed...
...they're on track to reach
Lem within 48 hours!
[YUHATA]
How'd this happen?
Did they analyze
the brain of the pilot
the Intelligent-Type
Gauna devoured...
...and discover our plans?
[KOBAYASHI] Midorikawa, form
a Suppression Force comprised
of all Mizuki's and Series 19s
and launch at once.
Yes, ma'am!
[YUHATA] This is
XO Midorikawa to all ships
in the Mizuki fleet.
We're heading to Lem to defend
the stellar energy collectors
against a suspected
Gauna attack.
Is it okay to send
this many ships?
With the Large Gauna
Cluster being so close?
If we lose the collectors,
we'll lose anyway.
But I thought they weren't
going to attack them.
I mean... It is the Gauna.
[OPERATOR T] The Suppression
Force has completed
their nine-ship linkage.
Go!
[TSUMUGI]
Tanikaze...
[NAGATE]
Tsumugi...
[TANBA] Wait! You want it
done in two days?!
It isn't that easy!
[SASAKI]
We have to.
Our top priority is tuning up
the rear propulsion system.
[NAGATE]
Tsumugi...
[door clacks]
[gasps]
Captain?
[KOBAYASHI]
I want to talk to you.
Have you got a moment?
[sighs]
Captain...?
[KOBAYASHI] Hmm. I'm not even
sure where to start.
It was so long ago.
I do know that
I was in my teens,
so, I guess that means it
was about 700 years ago.
[gasps]
Seven hundred years?!
Yes, I guess it has
been quite a long time.
[KOBAYASHI] Back then,
I was just a girl who decided
she wanted to be a pilot,
because of this pilot
I looked up to.
They were the best.
A better pilot
than anyone around.
They'd even managed to defeat
a Gauna, back when the Gardes
were far less powerful
than they are now,
and there weren't any Kabi.
A true genius, head and
shoulders above the rest.
There was even a plan to take
his personality and memories
and copy them for posterity.
That pilot... was Hiroki Saito.
The one who raised
you underground.
[gasps]
Wait. My grandfather?
But... Seven hundred years ago--
[KOBAYASHI] He wasn't actually
your grandfather.
[gasps]
[KOBAYASHI]
What I'm saying is that you are
Hiroki Saito's clone.
A special version,
made by forbidden means.
Genetic tech.
[NAGATE]
She told me everything.
All the details of that time.
My grandfather, her, Hiyama,
and the scientist Ochiai.
The captain had seemed so far
away and untouchable before,
but now, she felt like someone
I'd known for a very long time.
[NAGATE]
Thank you for telling me.
I really appreciate it.
[KOBAYASHI]
All my life...
...I've done whatever it took
to keep Sidonia alive.
But, then, Saito
denied immortality.
And he chose to raise you
in the traditional way.
Ugh. I'm scared what I've
done isn't that different
from Ochiai--It's the same,
just to a lesser degree.
[NAGATE]
Captain...
[KOBAYASHI sighs] Perhaps
even now... as I send you
and the other pilots
to your deaths,
I am telling myself
that same, old lie--
That I'm protecting Sidonia.
[KOBAYASHI chuckles]
Maybe I'm just tired.
I don't even know
what I'm saying.
[NAGATE]
Captain, listen.
Sidonia only made it
this far because of you!
[KOBAYASHI gasps]
[NAGATE] Grandpa had
this satisfied look about him,
near the end.
Tanikaze...
Know this: That I
believe in you, Captain!
This battle could
very well be our last.
So I'm counting
on you, Tanikaze.
Ma'am!
[OPERATOR U]
The Gauna force heading to Lem.
It appears to have split up!
One group is heading towards us!
How many?
[OPERATOR V] Multiple Gauna
pods, I see approximately
6,000 in each one!
[YUHATA]
They want to delay us.
Which means...
We'll shake them off
at full speed.
All ships, move to high alert!
[OPERATOR U] Ga-729 is firing
a Heigus Particle Cannon!
Evade!
[YUHATA grunts]
[OPERATOR Q]
This is the Suppression Force.
We have engaged the Gauna!
[KOBAYASHI]
What's the status?
[OPERATOR R] The Mizuki's
link has been broken.
Their speed is dropping!
[GUARDIAN PILOT II]
The Suppression Force was
attacked en-route?
[NAGATE] Are Tsumugi and the
Garde Units engaging them?!
Tsumugi!
[TSUMUGI grunting]
What is this?!
They're aiming
specifically for us!
Let's try to link up
the Mizukis again!
[OPERATOR W]
Ship number 8 is falling behind!
[TERURU]
Our propulsion system's damaged.
Go on without us!
[growls]
Garde Units, return to
your ships, now!
[HAMAGATA]
There's no end of them!
[GUARDIAN PILOT KK]
They're leaving!
--They're really leaving us!
--[GUARDIAN PILOT LL] It's over!
[gasps]
They're leaving?
[TSUMUGI] Don't give up!
Stick together, everyone!
Let's go back together!
[HASHINE]
Tsumugi, wait!
[TSUMUGI]
Ah, ah!
--[screams]
--[YUHATA] Tsumugi!
[OPERATOR X] We've lost contact
with Mizuki Ship number 8
--and Tsumugi! Status unknown!
--[gasping]
[NAGATE growls]
[OPERATOR S] The Suppression
Fleet has escaped,
except for Ship #8.
But, still, if they maintain
their current speed,
the Gauna will reach Lem
before the Suppression Force!
[KOBAYASHI]
Launch the Series 20.
[OPERATOR Q]
Ah. But it isn't finished yet.
[KOBAYASHI]
I don't care.
[TANBA]
Huh?! The hell?
Yesterday you said I had
two days to finish!
We did those welds
faster than normal,
and we haven't even tested them!
[OPERATOR R] Another change
with the Large Gauna Cluster!
It's accelerating towards
Sidonia again!
[OPERATOR Q]
Impossible.
It still had the power
to accelerate?
[OPERATOR R] It's moved
its Ena to the rear in order
to increase its propulsion!
[OPERATOR R] A huge number
of Gauna have launched from
the Large Gauna Cluster!
There are... an estimated
100,000 in the group!
[gasps] Ga-722's leading,
the Intelligent-Type!
[KOBAYASHI grunts]
[GUARDIAN PILOTS gasping]
[EN]
There're so many.
Why are they
attacking us, too, now?
[RYOU] And what's worse,
our autonomized Gardes,
they can't even handle
that Intelligent-Type.
[SASAKI]
Even if the Series 20 is fast,
there's no way it can
protect them both!
[KOBAYASHI]
What do we do?
Prioritize defending
Sidonia, and regroup?
Or bet on the Suppression Force?
[grunts]
We'll intercept the Gauna.
All crew, turn the ship
and prepare a bombardment!
Deploy our defense units!
The Series 20 will
proceed to Lem as planned.
[OPERATOR Q, R grunt]
[KOBAYASHI]
I'm sorry, everyone.
I didn't want to let
any of you die.
[NAGATE] I want more than
anything to go to Tsumugi.
But I can't...
There's no way
I can leave Sidonia now.
Captain! The Series 20'll
join the defense.
I'll get the Intelligent-type.
I can still make it!
[KOBAYASHI]
There isn't time.
If we want to take out
the Large Gauna Cluster,
the Series 20 needs
to go to Lem, now.
[NAGATE] But that leaves
Sidonia vulnerable!
[KUNATO] Director Sasaki, let me
use the Tsugumori Custom II.
Huh? What do you mean?
You know not just anybody
can use that, right?
This is unofficial, but here
are my training records
with the Tsugumori.
Seriously?
Hold on... You've been training
since you were a child?
And look at these
amazing ratings!
[KUNATO] The Tsugumori
Custom II isn't autonomous.
It can handle
the Intelligent-Type.
All right.
You there!
Get the Tsugumori
Custom II ready!
Kunato.
Go.
And leave Sidonia to me.
Right.
[SOLDIER A]
You can do it, Yukimori!
[NAGATE]
Tsumugi...
Listen, this thing
is sturdy, no doubt,
but it can't take a hit from
a Graviton Radiation Emitter.
Right, understood!
Don't give me that!
'Cause you've never understood!
Tanikaze, heading out!
Tsugumori Custom II, launching!
Propulsion device, release!
[NAGATE snoring softly]
[TSUMUGI giggles]
Tanikaze!
[TSUMUGI]
Huh?
[giggles]
You fell asleep, huh?
Ah... Hah...
[gasps]
[whimpers]
[sobbing softly]
[whimpering]
[sobbing]
--[TSUMUGI coughing, moaning]
--[WORKER A] Tsumugi! Wake up!
She lost an important organ, but
this ship can't fix it anymore.
We don't have the facilities!
Stop this! If weren't
for her we'd all have died
a long time ago!
[OPERATOR W] Ga-729 seems
to be heading back to us.
[TERURU]
Anybody who still has ammo,
get ready to intercept!
[GUARDIAN PILOT MM]
It's hopeless.
There's not enough firepower.
We fight for Sidonia's future.
So let's defeat
every Gauna we can!
[HASHINE] Yeah. How else
can we repay Tsumugi?
[HAMAGATA] That's right!
We can't give up yet!
[OPERATOR W]
Ga-729 will arrive shortly!
[TSUMUGI wheezing]
Fire!
Not enough firepower!
[HASHINE gasps]
[OPERATOR W]
Ga-729 is disintegrating!
[HASHINE]
What was that?
[HAMAGATA] I'm pretty sure
something just pierced through
the Gauna Pod's primary core!
[HASHINE, HAMAGATA]
Tanikaze!
The ram attack was a success!
Tsumugi!
[TSUMUGI grunts]
Tanikaze... Are you there...?
Where are you...?
[NAGATE]
Right beside you.
Don't worry. I'm right here!
[TSUMUGI] Ah...
There you are. I'm so glad.
I don't... want to be apart...
from you anymore...
Tanikaze... Please...
I always... want to
be with you...
[NAGATE grunts]
[NAGATE sobs]
[HASHINE] Tanikaze,
we have to get Tsumugi
back to Sidonia, now!
[HAMAGATA]
Hashine, Tanikaze can't--
he needs to meet up with
the main Suppression Force!
[HASHINE]
Hmm?
Hold on. What are you doing?!
[NAGATE]
I'm taking her with me.
There's a bio-tank
on the primary Mizuki.
[HAMAGATA]
But in the state she's in...
That's way too
dangerous, she might--
[NAGATE]
It's the only way.
[OPERATOR U] The fleet
has taken 63% casualties!
[growls] Ships 2 and 4,
hold off the Gauna Pods
on the starboard side!
[OPERATOR X] Captain, we've
reports that Collector Sphere 4
was destroyed!
Forget it. For now,
we'll defend Sphere 7,
the one right in front of us!
[OPERATOR X]
Roger!
[YUHATA]
Not good.
Only Spheres 6 and 7 made it.
We need to defend them
no matter the cost.
[GUARDIAN PILOT NN]
Ah!
[SEII]
Maintain speed!
Lose momentum, Lem's gravity
well will draw you in!
[GUARDIAN PILOT NN]
Right!
[screams]
[gasps]
[GAUNA]
One Garde down.
Soon, there'll be more.
[OPERATOR V]
Ga-721! The Intelligent-Type!
[TSURUUCHI]
Die, scum!
Shit!
[SAMARI]
Don't let it get away!
[OPERATOR V] High-density
Heigus signal from Ga-721!
No! It's going to
destroy the collector!
[SEII growls]
[OPERATOR W] High-speed
flying object approaching from
outside the combat area!
[gasping]
[OPERATOR U]
Huh?! Its speed is incredible!
[OPERATOR T] The Intelligent-
Type Gauna disintegrated!
[SAMARI]
The Yukimori?
[SEII]
Tanikaze?
No... I...
...think that's...
[OCHIAI laughs]
[YUHATA]
The Hybrid Kanata...
No, Ochiai!
[OPERATOR U]
Impossible!
When we left earlier, he was
still outside the star system!
Shoot him down
immediately, Gardes!
He's after
the collector spheres!
[OCHIAI laughing]
[OCHIAI growls]
[EN]
Get him!
Honokas.
3-1 Clasp now!
[REN, RYOU]
Roger!
[growls]
Got him!
He's tough!
[OCHIAI chuckles]
[REN gasps]
He's got the collector!
[OPERATOR U] Ochiai's Ena
is expanding rapidly!
[gasps]
He's absorbed the energy...
No! Destroy it, right now!
[OPERATOR U gasps]
But--
It's better than
giving it all to him!
[GUARDIANS]
Roger!
[OPERATOR W]
Ship #4 is badly damaged!
[OPERATOR T] One hundred
twenty Gardes were destroyed!
[OPERATOR U] Multiple enemy
Gauna disintegrated!
He's hitting everyone,
even his comrades...
[SAMARI gasps]
Oh no!
The flagship!
[gasps]
[OCHIAI]
Hmm?
Ochiai!
[SAMARI]
Get him!
[SEII grunts]
[REN, EN]
Tanikaze!
[NAGATE]
Get Tsumugi to a bio-tank!
[TSUMUGI panting]
Tanikaze!
[NAGATE]
It's gonna be okay, Tsumugi.
[OPERATOR X] It looks
like Ochiai's heading
for Collector Sphere 7!
[NAGATE grunts]
[SAMARI, SEIJI]
Tanikaze!
[NAGATE] I've got this!
Let me handle Ochiai!
[SAMARI]
What are you going to do?
Normal weapons can't
penetrate his armor!
[SEII] He has a Graviton
Radiation Emitter, too,
Tanikaze! Even the Yukimori--
I have a plan!
Ochiai!
[OCHIAI chuckles]
You came after me alone?
You must be Saito's clone,
Nagate Tanikaze.
[OCHIAI] It's just like it was
a hundred years ago, huh?
Hmph. In that case.
[OPERATOR W]
The Collector...
It appears to be
falling into Lem!
[OPERATOR T]
He shot it down himself?!
I thought he was
after its energy!
[OPERATOR V]
Ochiai--he's still going after
the collector sphere!
[YUHATA] The Series 19's
propulsion system--
it can't handle that gravity.
Tanikaze, It's up to you.
Only you and the
Yukimori can follow him.
Defeat Ochiai and
protect the collector!
Roger that!
Our 2nd defense line
is about to be breached!
[OPERATOR R] The Large Gauna
Cluster is still approaching!
It's on a collision
course with us!
[KOBAYASHI] Observation team,
have we id'd its primary core?
We've been able to narrow
it down to 60 candidates
at this point,
but we're not sure
which is the real one!
[KOBAYASHI] Even with the energy
from the collectors,
we can't fire the Emitter
that many times!
It's impossible.
Narrow it down further!
Roger!
[KOBAYASHI]
Deploy all our defensive units!
Stop them at the last defense
line, no matter the cost!
Gauna...
[OPERATOR Y] Kunato unit,
Ga-490 is approaching!
Be careful!
[KUNATO]
Stop it, Hoshijiro!
Stay away!
I can finally
get revenge, Sister...
[GUARDIAN PILOT OO]
All units, open fire!
[GUARDIAN PILOT M screams]
[OPERATOR W] Ga-722 has
broken through the defense line
on its own and is
continuing the fight!
I'll delay the Intelligent-Type
Gauna with the Custom II.
Okay! Team, turn off
autonomous mode!
We'll fight the
Intelligent-Type Gauna!
Roger!
[OPERATOR S] Multiple
enemy Gauna have landed on
the Garde launch port!
Gauna intrusion
warning is in effect!
All crew, get to shelters,
and connect your safety belts!
--Begin emergency protocols!
--[RESIDENTS screaming]
It's all right, just stay calm!
--[KID C] I'm scared!
--[KID D] I am, too.
It's okay!
[OPERATOR Q] Multiple Gauna have
entered the residential block!
[OPERATOR R] The Kabizashi
vault has been destroyed!
[OPERATOR S]
The Gardes can't do it.
They won't stop them in time!
[GAUNA]
Heigus...
Particle... Cannon.
[GAUNA laughs]
[HIYAMA]
Ah! Heads down!
[gasps]
The Tsugumori Custom II!
Get out of here!
Ah!
It's fast!
But...
[KUNATO grunts]
There!
Damn it!
One Gauna down! Take that!
[grunts]
Toutarou!
Just go! Now!
Roger!
[TOUTAROU groans]
Dammit!
[grunts]
[KUNATO groaning]
[yells]
Come on!
A bit more!
[KUNATO gasps]
What?
[KUNATO grunting]
Well, I guess this is the end.
[gasps]
Toutarou?
[TOUTAROU]
I am not gonna let that happen.
You can't hog all the glory!
--Yah!
--[GAUNA shrieks]
[OPERATORS gasping]
[OPERATOR W] The Intelligent-
Type Gauna has disintegrated!
Kunato and Yamano have done it.
They've destroyed the Gauna
inside the residential block!
[TOUTAROU panting]
I did it... Sister.
Job well done, Yamano.
[chuckles]
[NAGATE grunting]
[OCHIAI]
You're pretending to be right on
my firing line aren't you?
I suppose you want me
to fire because that would
expose my firing port?
[NAGATE grunts]
[groans]
[OPERATOR X] The Yukimori has
entered the convective envelope!
[OPERATOR W] The pilot seat
of Tanikaze's Garde
is rising in temperature!
His heart rate is exceeding 180!
[gasps]
[SEII] Tanikaze, stay away
from Lem's core!
He knows the maximum temperature
the Yukimori can handle!
[NAGATE panting]
[OPERATOR Q]
The Large Gauna Cluster,
it's about to hit the satellite!
[OPERATOR R gasps] It's like the
whole satellite's just a toy.
Observation team, go!
Deploy observation network!
Find the primary core!
[IZANA gasps]
[groans]
[gasps]
I found the primary core!
Let's get out! Now!
[IZANA]
Nagate, the rest is up to you!
[NAGATE groans]
[OCHIAI] How long will you
be able to move like that?
[OPERATOR T] Tanikaze is
entering the radiative layer.
The temperature of his
pilot's seat is rising rapidly!
He can't keep this up!
Tanikaze!
Even the Yukimori,
it can't last much longer!
[OPERATOR T]
Heat level's critical.
His cooling systems
can't keep up!
His engines may be all right,
but he won't be!
[OCHIAI chuckles]
Your human body
can't last any longer.
[OCHIAI]
You're mine now.
Yah!
--[OCHIAI] What...?
--Yaaah...!
[huffing]
[OCHIAI]
You...
You pretended to slow down?
[NAGATE]
Secondary detonation successful.
Primary core sighted!
[OCHIAI]
Lalah...
The Ena in your body...
It's attached itself
to your brain now.
Outside of this life support
device, you'll die.
I'm sorry, Lalah!
[gasps]
This is all I can do right now.
But someday, I swear...
...I'll get you out of that!
I could get used to this.
Thank you, Ochiai!
[OCHIAI whimpers]
[OCHIAI] So you're going
to kill me, Tanikaze?
[gasps]
[OCHIAI] Is there anyone out
there who thinks about
humanity's future
as much as I do?
[OCHIAI]
For a thousand years,
no one has been able
to speak to the Gauna.
And I succeeded
in talking to them.
You cannot destroy
the Large Gauna Cluster!
Because... that's
a memory device!
A collection of all the
information about the universe.
It would take thousands
of years to understand it all.
I have transformed into
the ultimate lifeform,
and I can solve
the mysteries therein.
Now that I have
achieved this feat,
I could leave humanity's
seed forever.
With my existence, humanity has
surpassed its incompleteness
as a species.
And you...
You would have
the audacity to ruin it all?
You've no right.
It is not your place to
determine the end of our kind!
I am a Knight of Sidonia.
That means...
...I have to kill you.
[OCHIAI]
Wait!
Don't do this!
Don't you want to see
Shizuka Hoshijiro again?
If so... then you don't
have to kill me!
I can grant your wish!
[OPERATOR W]
He did it!
Tanikaze has destroyed Kanata
and secured the collector!
[NAGATE]
I'm returning to base!
--[GUARDIANS cheering]
--[sighs]
It's done!
Tanikaze...
[SEII]
Hmph.
[OPERATOR V]
Hold on!
The temperature is still rising
inside Tanikaze's Garde!
The damage is destroying
its air-tight seal!
[NAGATE huffing]
[NAGATE]
It's up to you now...
[huffing]
...everyone...
[OPERATOR V] The Yukimori has
switched to autonomous mode!
It's 50,000 kilometers
from the Mizuki!
Autonomous?
Oh, no! That means
he's willing to die?!
[OPERATOR X]
The Garde will be okay,
but its pilot won't
survive those conditions!
There was no other option.
To defeat Ochiai,
he had to do it like this.
Tanikaze...
You knew that it was going
to turn out like this?
Don't give up now, Tanikaze!
You always came home alive.
You can do it again
this time, right?
[huffing]
Goodbye... Tsumugi...
[YUHATA]
Tanikaze!
[thudding]
[TSUMUGI panting]
[OPERATOR V]
Tsumugi left her bio-tank!
[gasps]
Tsumugi...
Your Ena can't help you
inside the star!
Come back!
[TSUMUGI grunts]
[YUHATA]
Tsumugi!
You can't do this
in the shape you're in!
[NAGATE gasps]
No...
Stay away, Tsumugi!
[TSUMUGI]
Tanikaze...
[OPERATOR V]
Her mass is dropping!
The Ena's being worn away!
Tsumugi!
Go back, Tsumugi!
It'll be all right!
[TSUMUGI]
Tanikaze...
[NAGATE]
Tsumugi...
Why...?
[TSUMUGI]
Please... just let me help you.
[OPERATOR U] The temperature
in Tanikaze's Garde...
It's dropping!
Does that mean it's
recovering air-tightness?
She used her Ena to seal it?
Tsumugi!
[sobs]
It's going to be all right!
Please don't do this!
Go back, Tsumugi, I'm begging!
[sobs]
No... No!
Don't do this! Tsumugi!
[TSUMUGI]
Tanikaze...
It's okay.
[TSUMUGI]
I'm glad that I'm here.
I'm glad I was born.
[TSUMUGI]
Thank you...
[NAGATE sobbing]
Tsumugi!
[OPERATOR X]
Collectors connected!
[OPERATOR U]
Begin energy transmission!
That's the collector Tanikaze
and Tsumugi protected.
Please...
May it protect Sidonia!
[IZANA]
The cluster's so close.
It won't make it.
Which means Sidonia will be...
[OPERATOR Q] Contact with the
Large Gauna Cluster imminent!
[IZANA gasps]
[OPERATOR Q] Energy is coming
in from the collector!
[OPERATOR R]
Energy charge 93%!
It's surpassed
the criticality point!
Target the primary core
of the Large Gauna Cluster!
[OPERATOR Q]
Target locked!
Graviton Radiation Emitter
final safety device, released!
[KOBAYASHI]
Fire.
[OPERATOR Q gasps]
The core's still there!
It didn't disintegrate!
What happened?!
[OPERATOR R]
There's a huge gravity wave
right in front of us!
[OPERATOR S] Did it...
use gravity to deflect it?
[KOBAYASHI]
Prepare the Heavy Mass Cannon.
[OPERATOR Q] Uh. The Primary
Core Shaft Mass Cannon?
[KOBAYASHI] We'll fire while
their primary core is exposed.
--Hurry!
--[OPERATOR Q] Roger!
[OPERATOR R Five hundred
kilometers until impact!
[OPERATOR Q] Primary Core Shaft
Barrel is ready to use!
[OPERATOR BB] Okay,
everyone out of the barrel!
Hurry!
[OPERATOR R] Artificial
Kabi Mass Round, loaded!
[SASAKI] This barrel and round
were a gift from our ancestors.
Please, protect Sidonia!
[OPERATOR Q] Primary Core Shaft
Mass Cannon, loaded and ready!
[OPERATOR R] Heigus ducts
and bullet accelerator
device connected!
[OPERATOR Q]
Activate the main engines!
[OPERATOR R] Our target:
The Large Gauna Cluster!
[KOBAYASHI]
Open Gunport 1!
Fire.
[OPERATOR S]
We did it!
The Large Gauna Cluster
has disintegrated!
[OPERATORS cheering]
[OPERATOR X]
Footage from the Sidonia!
They've destroyed
the Large Gauna Cluster!
We won...
We really did it.
It's done.
--Yeah.
--We won...
[chuckles]
We won!
[GUARDIANS cheering]
[WORKER DD groaning]
It's okay now. Drink this.
Ah. Thank you.
[WORKER B]
There she is. Over there.
[WORKER C] Captain,
we brought in a stretcher!
Huh? Captain?
Whoa. Thank you, ma'am!
Uh! It's an honor!
Uh, I'm fine!
Relax and try to stay still.
Hey, what's wrong?
Where is your ma--?
[KOBAYASHI]
Where is the mask?
It was getting in the way.
[HIYAMA] It's been
centuries since I've seen
that expression on your face.
[REN]
Ah... Tanikaze...
[NAGATE whimpering]
Tsumugi...
[NEWSCASTER AA] Breaking News:
Ena pollution of Planet Seven
has been determined
to be minimal.
The authorities have announced
their intent to immediately
begin improving
the environment in order
to start the
colonization process.
Huh?! She figured out how
the blood worm's personality
copy tech works?
Wow, good job, Grandma.
[YURE]
And there's this. Look.
This Ena was found clinging to a
deep, deep gap in the Yukimori.
Does that mean... what I think?
[YURE chuckles]
[NAGATE whimpering]
[sighs]
[HASHINE] So, um, we found this
during the rebuilding efforts,
and I thought you
should have it.
[gasps]
[NAGATE sobbing]
Tsumugi...
[GIRL A]
Mr. Tanikaze...?
[gasps]
Are you okay?
[sniffles]
I'm sorry, this is embarrassing.
[GIRL A]
Mm-mm. See ya!
[MOTHER A]
I'm sorry.
[GIRL A giggles]
--Was he okay?
--[GIRL A] Yeah!
[NAGATE sighs]
[TSUMUGI]
Tanikaze.
[gasps]
[YURE]
Are you really okay?
[TSUMUGI] Yes. I think
I can walk on my own.
One... two...
One...
[yelps]
[gasps]
[NAGATE]
No way...
Tsumugi...
Is it you...?
[gasps]
[IZANA] Grandma was able to
figure out how Ochiai's
personality transfer worked.
Transferring Tsumugi's
personality into Hoshijiro's
regenerated body
was quite simple.
For someone like
my grandma, that is.
[TSUMUGI gasps]
I, uh...
I really thought I'd
never see you again.
[gasps]
[grunts]
[sniffles]
[TSUMUGI]
Tanikaze? Um, I'm...
Well, I'm a human now!
I hope that you'll
still like me in this form!
[sighs]
Welcome back, Tsumugi.
[gasps]
Hooray!
Tanikaze!
Hooray! Hooray!
Hooray!
No! Hmph!
[TSUMUGI]
Now, don't act like that!
We said we'd all go
when Daddy got back!
[NODOKA]
Hmph! I can go on my own!
[TSUMUGI]
Hold on a minute!
Nodoka!
[NAGATE] Day 26, Month 13
of Seven-Year 4.
Sidonia is leaving,
taking off on another journey.
With about half the ship
staying behind.
[NODOKA grunts]
--[NODOKA giggling]
--[IZANA] Nodoka!
Oh, hi, Izana!
[laughs]
[IZANA chuckles]
[BOTH gasp]
--Yuhata!
--Yuhata?!
It's been a long time.
[CLONES chuckling]
[HAMAGATA]
Hey!
I swear, someday, I'm gonna be
a great pilot, just like you!
[NAGATE]
Good luck.
You can leave Sidonia to me.
[NAGATE]
Counting on you, Kunato.
[GROUP chuckles]
Hey, Izana, when will
I see you again?
[IZANA]
Hmm... Good question.
I can't say for sure, but if you
ever find yourself in trouble,
I promise I'll be there for you.
That means,
whenever I'm in trouble,
you have to come help me, 'kay?
[NODOKA]
Hmm!
[OPERATOR Z]
Uh. Captain Midorikawa,
the departure ceremony
is about to begin!
[YUHATA] Seed Ship Sidonia
will now set off
in search of new lands!